Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-11-23T19:39:33-06:00

====== Q1 Contemporary Epistemology ======
Created Thursday 23 November 2017

=== &!(09072017) ===
Questions of epistemoloy:
	1. What is knowledge
	2. How do we get knowledge
	3. Can we have knowledge
Other related topics:
	belief
	rationality
	justification
	understanding
	intellectual virtue
Grand divide of ways of doing epistemology:
	1. Ancient/Medieval
		World-first: epistimology is the culmination of ones learning.
	2. Modern Way
		Mind-first: epistemology is when you study how to best use the mind to discern knowledge.

=== &!(09122017) ===
What Epistemology is?
	Core Questions:
		What is knowledge
		Can we have knowledge
		How do we get knowledge
		Why is knowledge good or valuable
		( Order Matters )
	Subsidiary Questions
		Justification   
			That which makes it legitimate or justified to be certain about something
		Rationality
			2 forms, actions == beliefs and beliefs on their own
		Virtues
			Wisdom
			Scientific knowledge
			Understanding
			Prudence
			Art
		Certainty
			The degree of absense of fear or falsehood
		Understanding
			Grasping the causes of a thing, or the dependencies of a thing on other things
		Evidence
        
	Broad Definition of Epistemology
	&1Epistemology: the study of right or good ways to grasp reality cognitively
	What would epistemology ask/say about:
		poetry
			is poetry a distinct method to truth?

Core Features of Knowledge
	1. Knowledge is a relation between a conscious subject and an object (but possibly not the immediate object) in reality
	2. The relation is cognitive - ie the subject thinks and does not merely sense or feel the object
		rules out emotions and desires
		mandates that perception is a tool for knowledge, and the mind is the thing that builds knowledge
	3. Knowing includes believing
		Knowing is always belief, but belief is not always knowing
			belief is assent 

=== &!(09192017) ===
Core and items on propositional knowledge
	1. Relation between conscious subject and worldly object
	2. Relation is cognitive
	3. Knowingly includes believing
	4. The object of knowledge is a proposition
	5. The object of knowledge is a true proposition
	6. Knowing is a good state
&1Knowledge: to know is to believe a true proposition in a good way.
&1Consciencious: setting good/high standards for something
&1Consciencious belief: Our standard for believing something is that it is true.
Distinction between ability knowledge and propositional knowledge
	Ability knowledge: ways of making or doing
True belief is not sufficient for Knowledge
	Knowlede involves a kind of success that is creditable to the agent
	True belief can occur by luck, which is not creditable to the agent
	=> True belief is not sufficient for knowledge
On the Value of Knowledge
	Knowledge derives some value from true belief
	&1Instrumental value: Valuable for a purpose beyond itself
		Fire > warmth
		cars > travel
	&1Non-Instrumental value: Valuable for its own sake
		Friends
	True belief is instrumental to knowledge
		True beliefs are generally more valuable than a false belief
	Some true beliefs can not have value if they are useless or detrimental
		Objections to this:
			Why think that contrary beliefs like thinking you will beat terminal cancer are actually beliefs
				(Possibly they are actually fantasys that help you achieve your goals)
			It is very hard to determine what knowledge will be useful in the future.

=== (09212017) ===
Knowledge has greater instrumental value than true belief
	True belief without support is easily undermined by new evidence
	Knowledge seems not to have that instability
		not absolutely stable
	The stability is what makes knowledge more valuable than true belief
Knowledge may have non-instrumental value
	eg. wisdom
Methodism and particularism as approaches to defining knowledge (robert chisolm)
	1. Gather a lot of x, see what they have in common
		a. How do you gather x without also collecting y
	2. Think about what x-hood must be
		a. Seems impossible without referencing some knowledge/experience of x in your life
	&1Particularism: the approach to defining knowledge that begins with a bunch of cases of knowledge then seeks to generalize from those instances the criteria of that knowledge
		Assumption: we assume that it is possible for us to gather this knowledge in the first place
		Advantage: science
		Disadvantage: assumes skepticism == false
	&1Methodism: Reflect on the criteria for something to be x
		Advantage: Doesn't assume skepticism == false
Problem of the criterion
	You need a correct definition to sort cases properly
	You need to sort casses properly to get a correct definition
	Way out: you don't need a fully correct definition to get the criterion right
Classical Definition of Knowledge
	JTB: Justified True Belief
		Someone knows that p if and only if they have a justified true belief of p
		Justification comes thru evidence/thourough investigation
			does not allow for luck
			epistemic blamelessness
Gettier Case
	Clock is dead at 7:35, a person checks the clock in the morning at actually 7:35, and has a justified true belief that it is 7:35 when it was actually due to luck (checking the clock at the perfect time)

=== &!(09262017) ===

On writing better Summaries
	I'm going to summarize this topic by this author in this work(s)
	Here's one reason why you should care about this topic.
	Explain topic
		Argument
		Distinction
		Claim
		Taxonomy of Views
	Invent, apply, and use your own examples to explain the author's meaning
		Explain the examples

Receipe for Gettier Case
	1. Start with a justified false belief
	2. Make the false belief true, by some lucky circumstance unknown to the agent.

4th Condition on Knowledge to deal with Gettier cases
	1. No false presuppositions.
		It is possible to have knowledge with false propositions
	2. No Defeater
		defeater: False proposition that the agent is not aware of, and if the agent were aware of it, the agent's justification would vanish/diminish
	3. Virtue approach to knowledge
		Knowledge is true belief gained as a result of the operation of reliable epistemic virtues or cognitive faculties

&1Justified Belief: A belief that is appropriately held.

What is it that makes a belief justified for me to hold?
	The Regress of Justification
		Case:
			I believe that the quiz is on monday (B)
			why?
			The teacher told me (R)
			(R supports B)
			I believe that there is milk in the fridge (B)
			why?
			There is a live cow in the fridge (R)
			(R supports B)
				Note that the cases have reasons that are beliefs of their own (and therefore also need justification)
		Generate the regress:
			Beliefs need grounds, reasons, and supports to be justified
			Grounds themselves need to be justified
			So, grounds need grounds
			(and on and on)
		Problematic because:
			We are finite cognizers
			Arbitrary stopping points are bad
		Agrippa's Trilemma
			(3 unpalatable responses to the regress of justification)
	1. Our beliefs are unsupported
	2. Our beliefs are supported by an infinite chain of justification (in which no supporting reason repeats itself)
	3. Our beliefs are supported by a circular chain of justification in which some supporting reason repeats itself
		Responses to the regress:
	1. Infinitism: Infinite chains of justifications actually make our beliefs justified
				Only needs to be potentially infinite
	2. Coherentism: A circular chain of reasoning can justify a belief
				Qualification: No coheretist is going to accept a very tight circle
				(worldview <-> experience)
				While we do this naturally, this may not be the right way.
				Problem:
					Good fiction has coherence, but is false
					Detatchment problem: it is possible to have false coherent beliefs that are detached from the world
	3. Foundationalism: a belief can be justified without being further supported by other beliefs
				Usually not a belief (experience)
				If it is, it is a self evident truth
				Classical foundationalism: Chains of justification terminate in self-justifying beliefs
				Problem:
					You have to explain or give a criteria for self evident truths
						Strict: Certain, immune from doubt, self evident
							Doesn't justify much
						Not Strict: Just the things that seem true to me
							Not infallible

=== (missed class 9/28) ===
=== &!(10032017) ===

Master Argument for Coherentism
	p1. Content requirement: In order to be a justifier, you need to have a propositional content, 
		and you need to represent that content assertively
	p2. Only beliefs: only beliefs represent content assertively
	C1. Only beliefs can be justified
Objection 1 to the Master Argument: Experiences
	p1. Experiences have propositional content
		Example: in the case of an illusion
			Experience: 'line B is longer than A'
			Belief: 'line B is the same length as A'
	C1. Beliefs are not the only way to represent content assertively
	Reply: Experiences are simply a recognition of appearances, which we make beliefs about.
Objection 2-3 to the Master Argument: Premise Principle
	Premise Principle:
		Used by the Coherentist
		Basic point: justifiers for P must have propositional contents that can stand in inferential
			relations to P.
	Rejecting arguments for the premise principle:
		Argument 1: Arbitrariness
			Unless a state has propositional content that can stand in argumental relations to the
				belief (unf)
			Example: Headaches seem able to be justified by themselves
			Reply: It is possible to give non-arbitrary relations between facts and events and the things they justify
				Example: The headache stands in non-arbitrary relation to beliefs about the headache which can be used
					to justify it.
		Argument 2: Reasons and Evidence
			A person isn't justified in believing something unless that person is 
				able to cite some reason in favour of that belief
			Example: I believe I know the time, because I have a reliable watch
				(why is the watch reliable?) If noJustification: no reason
			If you are able to cite this premise, you can say that justification is
				related to arguments
			Reply: Distinguish between justification making and justification showing
				There are some items that you can show a justification is justified (shower)
					eg. arguments
				This does not mean that arguments must be argument makers
Epistemic Rationality
	Rationality: Involving the right use of our power of reason
	Epistemic Rationality: Concerning right use of reason in search of the truth
	Possible accounts of what epistemic rationality demands of us:
		Seek to match God's knowledge
			It is impossible, so it is not a good one
		Maximise the number of true beliefs
			It appears that human knowledge becomes perfected as it becomes a mirror of the world
			There does not seem to be a moderate ammount of truth (it is a continuous search)
			But: it seems that there are useless beliefs
		Minimise false beliefs
			It seems rational that one should eliminate erroneous beliefs
			Problem: Satisfied by someone who believes nothing
		Hobby Horse
			Maximise the number of truths that you grasp through their causes
        

=== &!(10052017) ===
Conception of Rationality
	Objective vs subjective rationality
	Epistemic Norm: A rule that one follows in order to gain true beliefs
		at least subjectively
	Deontic
		If you form your beliefs responsably by your own lights then your beliefs are epistemically rational
		Consequence: The blameless use of incorrect epistemic norms can still be epistemically rational
		makes rationality a lot like culpability
	Non-Deontic
		One forms an epistemically rational belief only if one employs correct epistemic norms.
		Consequence: If you blamelessly employ the wrong epistemic norms then your belief is not epistemically rational
		comparable to sharpening (no moral imperative) 
Internalism v. Externalism  
	Internalism about rationality: Being epistemically rational is something the agent has control over.
		Everyday use of rationality + justification
		Seems to break the link between justification and knowledge
	Extermalism about rationality: Being epistemically rational depends on factors outside of ones control.
		Much closer link between justification and knowledge
		Opposes the everyday use of rationality + justification

Towards an Externalist account of justification
	Externalism: A non-inferential belief is justified if and only if there is some property H of the believer
		such that it is a law of nature that whenever a person satisfies H and has the belief, then the belief is true
			Property H: actually visually processing a horse
			Belief in question: There is a horse
			Law of nature: whther someone actually visually processes a horse, and then believes that there
				is a horse, then it is true that there is a horse => belief is true.
			Verdict on externalism is bleief is justified
		According to this there has got to be a law-like connection between a person's belief and the state of affairs
			that makes that belief true.As long as we have that, we have justification
	Bonjour's Counterexamples
		Bonjour argues that externalism is false.

=== &!(10102017) ===
Externalism++ = lawlike connection between belief and the state of affairs that makes the belief true
	and no cogen reasons against P and no general or specific reasons for thinking such a lawlike connection cannot exist.
	Issues:
		Arg by Analogy:
			P1. Norman's belief is relevantly analagous to a hunch.
			P2. No hunches are epistemically justified
			C1. Norman's belief is not epistemically justified
		Justifiers must be cognitively possessed
		Norman's lawlike connection is not possessed by him at all
		Connection to practical action:
			P1. If externalism is true, then it can be more rational to act on a moderately justified belief
				than on a highly justified belief.
			P2. But it cannot be more rational to act on a moderately justified belief than on a highly justified belief.
			C1. Externalism is not true.
Internalism: All the factors that contribute to justification must be available from the first-person perspective

Guidance-Deontological conception of justification:
	I am justified in my belief of P when I have followed the rules in order to discern P
Goldman's Claim: Even if we assume the GD conception of justification, that still doesn't properly support internalism
	Knowability Constant on Justifiers
		Justification has to do with duty but things that are totally beyond my knowledge are totally beyond my duty.
		KJ (Knowledge Limiting constraint on Justifiers: The only facts that qualify as justifiers of agent's believing
			P at time T are facts that the agent can readily know, at T, to obtain or not to obtain
			From KJ to strong Internalism:
				Readily known: knowable by introspection
				Strong internalism: Justifiers are limited to one's conscious mental states.
					Issues:
						Drastic skeptical consequences
						Fails to capture justification for stored beliefs
					Too restrictive
						Rebuttal:
							Why do you need to have justification of your beliefs at all time?

=== &!(10122017) ===
Weak internalism: Justifiers are limited to introspectible facts and facts stored in memory.
	Allows for memory to count as justification
	Issues:
		There are some basic knowledge that we know but do not remember the time where we learned them (need something beyond memory)
		Internalism and Epistemic Principles:
			Epistemic Principles: Propositions that state under which conditions a belief is justified, known, rational, unjustified, etc.
				ex/ if someone knows a thing is a dog, then they are justified in saying that it is an animal
			Goldman's Objection:
			P1. On weak internalism, all justifiers are accessible by introspection and/or memory.
			P2. Hardly anyone has access to correct epistemic principles by introspection or memory.
			C1. So, on weak internalism, Epistemic Principles are justifiers for hardly anyone


Perception
	Robust, exceptually widespread
	Perceptual appearances can be deceptive
	One possibility of perceptual error is not worrisome.
Argument from Illusion:
	Conclusion: The direct object of perception is a sense impression or seeming, not the world itself.
	Oasis Case:
		(Good Case): A person(p1) sees an oasis in the desert
		(Illusion Case): Another person(p2) sees the illusion of an oasis in the desert.
		P1. The visual impression in the good case can be exactly the same as the visual 
			impression formed by someone in the illusion case.
		P2. If these two visual impressions can be the same, then what we experience in 
			perception is not the world itself.
		C1. (above, 341)
Indirect Realism:
	View: Human beings gain knowledge of the objective world by making inferences from sense impressions.
	Realism:
	1. The world exists independently of our minds.
	2. We can know the world as it really is.
	Indirect:
	1. Sense impressions do not put us into immediate cognitive contact with reality
	2. We must infer the existence and properties of the world from the sense impressions in our experience
	Main Support: Arg from Illusion
	Secondary Support: Distinction between primary and secondary qualities
		Primary qualities: Features of things that they have independently of perception
			Solidity, extension, motion, number, shape
		Secondary qualities: Features a thing has that depend on the perception of agents
			Color, taste, smell, sound

=== &!(10172017) ===
Argument from Illusion (For Indirect Realism)
	C1: The immediate object of sense experience is not a public physical object, but rather sense data.
		sense data: Private, non-physical entities that actually possess sensory qualities of experience.
	3 args for C1:
	1. Perceptual relativity: the object of sense experience seems to experience intrinsic change, while the actual object is not intrinsically changing.
		The conditions of sense experience bring about seemings of change to objects, where they do not actually change (intrinsic change)
	2. Illusion: Objects can appear to have properties they don't have. (stick in water)
	3. Hallucination: Qualities can appear in experience when there is nothing material that exists to bear them. (oasis)
		If the object of experience and the physical object do not have similar properties, then they must be different things. (2,3)
		Something can have many visual properties, but only one is physically correct. (1)
	Hard nose response: Why suppose that there is a difference between veritical and non-veritical experience?
	Attack on sense data: Do sense datas exist thru time? Can they exist when they are not had? What are they(mental/non-mental)? 

Argument from Scientific Account of Perception
	The looking of things changes when the eyes are changed (but the things do not change).
	Neurological changes would be able to induce visual experience (in the future).
	There is a difference in time between perception and actuality (you do not see something when it is, you see it after it is).

Phenominalism = idealism (epistemologically)
	We cannot know anything about things beyond our experience.
	We can have justified belief about material objects, because they are about our experience.
	There is a material world, but it is entirely made up of sense data (and nothing beyond this collection).
	chairs exist => there are sense experiences that are configured in a chairish way
	Solypsism: there is only one person (me)

Indirect Realism:
	There is a mind-independent world, and we can know about it through our sense experience.
	Our sense experience is caused by the external world. 
	We are justified in believing things about the world, based upon inference from our sense experience.
	Sense experience is not entirely chaotic
		There is an external world
	Sense experience is involuntary
		Ordered and coherent
		Repeatable
		Can be broken up/off (blindness, blinking)
	Natural explanations for sense experience:
		Live in a 3d world
		We see things from our persepective in a 2d -> 3d format
	Reply to idealism:
		It seems like the order of things changes in idealism when we blink, yet intuitively we do not experience this. 

=== (10192017) ===
Bonjour against Idealism:
	Idealism requires 2 controversial claims:
		Sense experience is a representation of reality
		God is emulating reality
	Bonjour only needs the first, and so claims his approach is simpler

Direct Realism:
	p1. The immediate object of sense experienceis not sense data, but material objects in the world.
	p2. Our perceptual justification for beliefs about material objects is not inferential, but gained some other way.

Disjunctivism:
	View:
	1. Veridical perceptual experience is an an essentially relational state of affairs.
			Requires a relationship between the percieved and sense experience
	2. The character of my perceptual experience is determined by material objects not causally, but constitutively
			constitutively: included in (in this sense, sense experience)
		Experience that does not properly reflect reality is not an experience of the same kind as veridical experience.
			This is due to the essentially relational state that veridical experience requires.
		Your set of all posible indistinguishable sense experiences of cake fall into two essentially different kinds.
			Veridicle ones are essentially different from non-veridical ones.

Skepticism
	P1. I don't know that I'm not being decieved by a cartesian demon. (or not a brain in a vat, dreaming, in the matrix)
	P2. if I don't know that I'm not being decieved b a demon, then I don't know that I'm dressed.
	C1. I don't know that I'm dressed
	You can't know whether you are in the real world or in a skeptical illusion
	Knowledge is closed under entailment. 
		K - x is a dog
		k - being a dog entails being a mammal
		=> you know that x is a mammal
	Reply 1: deny closure premise (P2)
		Sensitivity:
			Knowledge must be sensitive
			A belief is sensitive only if, had a world been different, my belief would have been different.
		You are not sensitive when it comes to skeptical scenario (p1) beliefs, but you are to dressing (p2).
        
