Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-11-23T19:46:28-06:00

====== Q2 Thomist Epistemology ======
Created Thursday 23 November 2017

=== &!(10312017) ===
Story time with Grandpa Don
	Questions we can ask about beings:
		What is it made of? (material cause)
		What is it? (formal cause)
			Substantial forms: Formal causes in the fullest sense, makes a thing what it is. (horse)
			Accidental forms: Particularising features. Certain configuring features of a thing that are not essential to its subst. form. (color)
		How did it come to be? (efficient cause)
		What is it for? (final cause)
        
		Material & Formal causes: Intrinsic causes
		Efficient & Final causes: Extrinsic causes
			Final causes may be intrinsic

		Prime matter: Fundamental principle of potentiality.
			Has the potential to be in other substantial forms

		Prime matter <-(inherence)- Substantial form

		The observer will see the accidental forms of a thing, and use them to intuit the substantial form of them.
		2 forms of this cognititive process
			Cognition is an umprella term.
				Sense:
					Shared with lower animals
					Power of sight (causal impact of perception)
					Totally material
					Internal senses (making sense of things (sugar is both sweet and white, percieved 
						thru different senses, but they are the same thing))
					Phantasm: Active interacting part with the intellective processes
				Intellective:
					In some form shared with angels/God
					Active intellect: Abstracts from senses via the phantasm to discern knowledge about a thing
					Passive intellect: Gains the substantial forms percieved via data from active intellect/phantasm.
					Immaterial

=== &!(11072017) ===
Perception:
	Processes
		Sensation
			Involves material change in the objects of perception
		(nameless) Integration?
			Brings the multiple senses together
		Abstraction
			Not an action of body on mind
			Is an action of the agent intellect(active) acting efficiently on the phantasm
			The end product is the intelligible species
			The end product is deposited in the passive intellect
			Involves the removing or ignoring of the material accidents of the thing, preserved in the phantasm
			By stripping away these accidents, the active intellect brings out the quiddity or essence of the thing known
		Act of Word
	Species
		A sensible species (not conscious)
			Not available at will (feel burning)
		Phantasm (conscious)
			Available at will (imagine rome burning)
		Intelligible (not conscious)
			Analogue in intellectual cognition to the sensible species in sense cognition
			Similarities to sensible species and phantasms:
				Immaterial forms: forms are recieved immaterial (spiritual reception)
				Means of cognition, not what is cognized. 
				Similitude of extramental things
					has the same form of the things cognized, but not in the same way
			Differeces to sensible species:
				CAN be an object of knowledge: We can know our intelligible species by reflection
				Does not exist in a bodily organ
				Does not depend on material changes in a bodily organ
				Exist in the passive intellect
		Mental word (conscious)
	Powers
		In the sense powers, which are bodily
		Power of phantasia (bodily and in the brain)
		Active intellect (immaterial, part of the soul), passive intellect (")
			Came to be by the active intellect, exists in the passive intellect
		Exists in the intellect (mysterious)

=== (11092017) ===
For Aquinas:
	Intellectual knowledge is derived from sensible things (STq84a6)
		ground up, not forms down
		arg against:
			Insofar as something is sensible, it is material
			Material things cannot act on immaterial things
				Material things are limited by nature, confined to the space they occupy
				Immaterial things are not confined by space
			=> sensible things cannot have a role in making intellectual knowledge happen

		Originally, the atomists believed sense and intellectual knowledge are =
		Next, Plato distinguishes the two, int k and sense k, and makes them entirely independent
		Aristotle follows, still distinguishing those things, however he argues that they are dependent on eachother
			soul and body act together to make sensible species
		It is because of this that Aristotle and Aquinas are empiricists
	Intellect understands corporeal things by abstraction from phantasms (STq85a1)
		OB1:
			If material things are not abstract in themselves, then there is a falseness of our knowledge of them (since we cannot think the material)
		The condition in which the knowing power exists will be similar to the condition in which the object of that power exists
		Sense is of individual things
		Object of human intellectual cognition:
			In one sense in matter
				What we know are the forms of material things
			In another sense apart from matter
				The way we know those forms is universally and apart from matter
		Purpose of intellectual apparatus:
			Know about the material world
		We cannot know much if anything about God or anything immaterial, what little we can is found through the intellect

		Abstraction:
			2 types
				Caesar had no weight (wrong)
				(simple consideration) consider Caesar apart from his weight
			Concieving of the species of a thing beyond its individual characteristics
	The intellegible species is that by which we know, not what we know (STq85a2)
        

=== (11142017) ===
For Papers: think about the core of your argument.
Immateriality of cognition is essential for Aquinas. 

Content Fallacy
	An alleged problem for Aquinas' argument for immateriality of thought and soul.
	Content fallacy: It is fallacious to infer properties of the vehicle of representation from properties of the thing represented
	Case: Painting
		A chimney (thing represented)
			property of the thing represented: it smokes
		Painting of a chimney (vehicle of representation)
			is smoking represented in the vehicle? no
	Claim: Aquinas in his argument for the soul's immateriality commits the content fallacy
    
	Reply
	P1. Intellectual acts are essentially constituted by conceptualized universal natures
		"essential constitution": a thing isn't an intellectual act unless it has a universally conceptualized nature of a thing
	P2. No materially instantiated property is universal
	=>  Conceptualized universal natures are not materially instantiated
	P3. What is essentially constituted by non-materials is itself non-material
	=>  Intellectual acts are non-material

Content Fallacy Redux:
	Claim: Aquinas fails to distinguish between 2 senses of abstraction
	2 types of abstraction:
		Abstraction 1: to remove representation of the material conditions of the thing represented
		Abstraction 2: to remove the material conditions of the vehicle of representation.
	Sense representations:
		The materiality, size, shape, etc. of what it is of.
		(is a form and matter compound)
		Representation of the material conditions of the thing represented (A1)
		Subtract of M thereby remoing representation of material conditions (A2)
		A1 substance representation has both the form and matter
		A2 SR has only the form
		It seems like we can achieve abstraction without removing material conditions

=== &!(11212017)3x ===
Immateriality of the soul:
=>  Representative immateriality requires ontological immateriality
P1. Representative immateriality requires absense of encoded information about a thing's material individuation conditions (MIC).
	MIC: location, size, shape.
P2. Whatever has MIC represents through its MIC.
		A DVD represents its contents through its MIC
P3. Whatever represents through its MIC encodes information about the object's MIC.
	P3.1 Whatever represents thru its MIC comes to represent thru physical causal interaction w/
		 its object
	P3.2 Whatever comes to represent thru physical causation interaction w/ its obect encodes info 
		 about that object's MIC.

Identity thesis Itself:
	1. There are different kinds of identity:
		x - Numerical: Same instance, same kind
			Superman is numerically identical to Clark Kent
		y - Formal: Different instance, same kind
			Ruby and Tex (different instances of dog)
	2. This thesis is important
			Aquinas poses this as what cognition IS
			Aquinas thinks all causation is trasference of form
				(parents transfer form to children)
			Without sameness of form, directness of cognition is compromised
	3. Difficulties with Doctrine.
		a. p1. Forms constitute + characterize material substances
			p2. Whatever is in the intellect doesn't do this.
			=>  Whatever is in the intellect isn't a form of a material substance.
			Reply: p1 is false.Forms do not only have to characterize material substances. We can show
				   this by looking at a nature absolute
	b. p1. Fido has the same form as Spot.
			p2. Fido does not know Spot.
			=>  Having the same form doesn't make a thing know
			Reply: 
	c. p1. In living things, separation of form and matter is death.
			p2. Knowing something doesn't involve killing it.
			=>  Knowing a thing cannot involve separating its soul from its matter
	4. Absolute consideration of Nature
		1. Nature can be considered in 2 ways.
			with relation to (wrt)
	a. Wrt its mode of existence
	b. wrt nothing else (absolutely).
	2. The Nature absolutely considered is the formal intelligibility, neither one nor universal, that is found in things
			and acts of intellect
	3. The same characteristics specify things + acts of intellect.
	5. Isomorphism
		Q. What it is exactly for two things to have the same form.
		Sellars: formal sameness is isomorphism
		Isomorphism = A + B are isomorphic just if there is a 1-1 mapping of features of A onto features of B.
	6. Intentionality
		1. A feature of mental states
		2. It is the "aboutness of mental states.
		3. Q. What makes a mental state have intentionality?
		4. Possible Answer: formal sameness

